Babel 7.17.0 blog post (#2618)
babel/website: website/blog/2022-02-3-7.17.0.md

We also implemented the [RegExp `v` flag proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation), added parsing support for [destructuring private fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-destructuring-private), and a new experimental implementation of `@babel/register`.

You can read the whole changelog [on GitHub](https://github.com/babel/babel/releases/tag/v7.17.0).

<!-- truncate -->

If you or your company want to support Babel and the evolution of JavaScript, but aren't sure how, you can donate to us on our [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/babel#category-CONTRIBUTE) or [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/babel/babel?sponsor=1) and, better yet, work with us on the implementation of [new ECMAScript proposals](https://github.com/babel/proposals) directly! As a volunteer-driven project, we rely on the community's support to fund our efforts in supporting the wide range of JavaScript users. Reach out at [team@babeljs.io](mailto:team@babeljs.io) if you'd like to discuss more!

## Highlights

### Decorators ([#14004](https://github.com/babel/babel/pull/14004), [#13681](https://github.com/babel/babel/pull/13681))

> After receiving feedback from JavaScript developers, engine developers and language experts, [the decorators proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/) was rewritten taking into account multiple constraints and desires. We collaborated with the current proposal author, [@pzuraq](https://www.pzuraq.com/), and they implemented the new stage 2 proposal in Babel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After receiving feedback from JavaScript developers, engine developers and language experts, [the decorators proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/) was rewritten to take into account multiple constraints and desires. We collaborated with the current proposal author, [@pzuraq](https://www.pzuraq.com/) to implement the new stage 2 proposal in Babel.
```

The new implementation also supports decorating private class elements, as well as the new "class auto accessors" syntax:

```javascript
@defineElement("button")
class Button {
  @reactive accessor enabled = true;

  @event("onClick") #handleClick() {
    console.log("clicked!");
  }
}
```

You can enable the new proposal by passing the `"version": "2021-12"` option to `@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators`:

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    ["@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators", {
        "version": "2021-12"
    }]
  ]
}
```

> ⚠️ The new decorators syntax is compatible with the previous proposal, but the semantics are different: decorators written for Babel _"legacy"_, Babel _older-but-not-legacy_ or TypeScript will not work with the new proposal.

> If you want to help moving the proposal forward, you can try using it and leave feedback in [their GitHub repository](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues).

Author: @pzuraq Is this ok?

> If you want to help moving the proposal forward, you can try using it and leave feedback in [their GitHub repository](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to help move the proposal forward, you can try using it and leave feedback in [their GitHub repository](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues).
```

  ```javascript
  /[\p{Decimal_Number}--[0-9]]/v; // Non-ASCII decimal digits
  /[\p{ASCII}&&\p{Letter}]/v; // ASCII letters
  /[[\p{ASCII}&&\p{Letter}]\p{Number}]/v; // ASCII letters, or any digit
  ```
- Properties of strings, which allow using `\p` escapes with multi-codepoint properties
  ```javascript
  "Did you see the 👩🏿‍❤️‍💋‍👩🏾 emoji?".match(/\p{RGI_Emoji}/v). // ["👩🏿‍❤️‍💋‍👩🏾"]
  ```
- Multi-codepoint strings in sets, using a new `\q` escape
  ```javascript
  /[\r\n\q{\r\n|NEWLINE}]/v; // Matches \r, \n, \r\n or NEWLINE
  ```

You can enable this proposal using the `@babel/plugin-proposal-unicode-sets-regex` plugin:
```json
{
  "plugins": ["@babel/plugin-proposal-unicode-sets-regex"]
}
```

Babel relies on different third-party packages to transform regular expressions: we are grateful to the maintainers of [regjsparser](https://github.com/jviereck/regjsparser/), [regjsgen](http://github.com/benjamn/regjsgen) and [regexpu-core](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/regexpu-core/) who took time to review our pull requests!

### `@@` and `^^` topic tokens for Hack-style pipes ([#13973](https://github.com/babel/babel/pull/13973))

> We are continuing to help the proposal authors evaluating different tokens for the [pipeline operator](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator) proposal: one of the champions, [J. S. Choi](https://jschoi.org/), added support for two new tokens that you can try with the `topicToken` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are continuing to help the proposal authors evaluate different tokens for the [pipeline operator](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator) proposal: one of the champions, [J. S. Choi](https://jschoi.org/), added support for two new tokens that you can try with the `topicToken` option:
```

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    ["@babel/plugin-proposal-pipeline-operator", {
      "proposal": "hack",
      "topicToken": "^^" // or "@@"
    }]
  ]
}
```

### Experimental `@babel/register` rewrite ([#13782](https://github.com/babel/babel/pull/13782))

We plan to release Babel 8 as an ESM package. However, this poses a big problem: how to load and run it synchronously in CommonJS packages?

Usually most Babel consumers can run Babel asynchronously, or at least _load_ it asynchronously. This isn't true for `@babel/eslint-parser` and `@babel/register`, where we need to move parsing and transforming to a separate worker.

> Babel 7.16.0 exposes the new experimental `@babel/register` implementation at `@babel/register/experimental-worker`: it internally runs Babel asynchronously, so it's compatible with [`.mjs` configuration files](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/config-files#configuration-file-types) and with `.mjs` Babel plugins. It will be enabled by default in Babel 8, and you can already use it as a replacement of `@babel/register` with a few caveats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Babel 7.16.0 exposes the new experimental `@babel/register` implementation at `@babel/register/experimental-worker`: it internally runs Babel asynchronously, so it's compatible with [`.mjs` configuration files](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/config-files#configuration-file-types) and with `.mjs` Babel plugins. It will be enabled by default in Babel 8, and you can already use it as a replacement for `@babel/register` with a few caveats:
```
